# S3 Log Storage Plugin

This is a plugin for [Rundeck](http://rundeck.org) that uses [Amazon S3](http://aws.amazon.com/s3) to store execution
log files, for backup or for cloud-friendly behavior.

The source code lives at [https://github.com/rundeck-plugins/rundeck-s3-log-plugin](https://github.com/rundeck-plugins/rundeck-s3-log-plugin).

## Build

    ./gradlew clean build

## Install

Copy the `rundeck-s3-log-plugin-x.y.jar` file to the `libext/` directory inside your Rundeck installation.

Enable the ExecutionFileStorage provider named `org.rundeck.amazon-s3` in your `rundeck-config` file:

    rundeck.execution.logs.fileStoragePlugin=org.rundeck.amazon-s3

## AWS Credentials

The plugin will by default use the "credentials provider chain" for AWS access credentials, which allows you to
externally configure the credentials in any of three ways:

1. Environment variables `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_KEY`
2. Java system properties `aws.accessKeyId` and `aws.secretKey`
3. AWS credentials file
4. Instance Profile credentials, if you are running on EC2. (See [the IAM user guide][1]).

[1]: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/role-usecase-ec2app.html

If you want to specify access key and secret key, you can do so in the configuration:

## Configuration

To configure the AWS access credentials you can set these property values:

`AWSAccessKeyId` : access key, required if using `AWSSecretKey`

`AWSSecretKey` : secret key, required if using `AWSAccessKeyId`

`AWSCredentialsFile` : properties file which contains `accessKey` and `secretKey` entries. Alternative to specifying
the `AWSAccessKeyId and`AWSSecretKey`

S3 configuration uses these plugin configuration property values:

`bucket` : name of the S3 bucket to use

`path` : a path-like string that defines where in the bucket to store the log for a particular execution. You can
include variables to expand. Default value: `rundeck/project/$PROJECT/logs/$ID`

Variables in the `path` value include:

- `${job.execid}` - the execution ID
- `${job.project}` - the project name
- `${job.id}` - the Job UUID if it exists
- `${job.group}` - the Job Group if it exists
- `${job.path}` - the Job Name if it exists

`region` : AWS region name to use. Default: `us-east-1`

`endpoint`: Optional, a custom S3 compatible endpoint to use, such as `https://my-host.com/s3`

`pathStyle`: Optional, boolean, default=False, set to True if you need to define the bucket in your S3 like endpoint URL. e.g https://\<s3_like_end_point_url\>/\<your_bucket_name\>
A custom way of defining buckets in your endpoint. Useful for non-AWS S3 like object storage technology e.g swift stack, Optums, etc.
Background information http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/VirtualHosting.html. May be useful if you have an https endpoint URL.

You can define the configuration values in `framework.properties` by prefixing the property name with the stem:
`framework.plugin.ExecutionFileStorage.org.rundeck.amazon-s3.`. Or in a project's project.properties file with the stem
`project.plugin.ExecutionFileStorage.org.rundeck.amazon-s3.`.

For example:

```properties
#AWSAccessKeyId and AWSSecretKey can be specified in the file
framework.plugin.ExecutionFileStorage.org.rundeck.amazon-s3.AWSAccessKeyId=ABC123...
framework.plugin.ExecutionFileStorage.org.rundeck.amazon-s3.AWSSecretKey=ABC321...

#alternately, AWSCredentialsFile can point to a file which contains `accessKey` and `secretKey`
framework.plugin.ExecutionFileStorage.org.rundeck.amazon-s3.AWSCredentialsFile=/path/to/awscredentials.properties

#name of the bucket
framework.plugin.ExecutionFileStorage.org.rundeck.amazon-s3.bucket=test-rundeck-logs

#path to store the logs
framework.plugin.ExecutionFileStorage.org.rundeck.amazon-s3.path=logs/${job.project}/${job.execid}.log
```

To use an AWS credentials file, you must not use the `AWSAccessKeyId`, `AWSSecretKey` or `AWSCredentialsFile` properties. Instead, create a `credentials` file in the Rundeck user's home directory under ~/.aws/credentials . This allows you to use full AWS AIM identities for authentication to AWS.

An example of a working configuration:

```
[userauthentication]
aws_access_key_id = AKIWWWWWWWWWWWWWW
aws_secret_access_key = wo9........pYq

[default]
role_arn = arn:aws:iam::012345678900:role/yourrolehere
source_profile = userauthentication
region = us-east-2
```

## Using with Rundeck SSL Configuration

If you want to use this plugin when you have Rundeck configured with a custom SSL truststore, you will need to import the Amazon S3 SSL certificates to your truststore.

```sh
echo -n | openssl s_client -connect my-bucket.s3.amazonaws.com:443 > certs.out
keytool -importcert -trustcacerts -file certs.out -alias s3-amazonaws -keystore $RDECK_BASE/etc/truststore
```
